Project Proposal
================
Viz Biz

*Authors: Eli Feder, Lillian Clark, Phillip Harmadi, Sana Prashankar*

## High-Level Goal

We strive to create a convenient website where non-R users and the
general public can navigate to and customize the several famous art
pieces recreated in ggplot. Users will have the ability to adjust and
modify some of the artwork aesthetics to make the masterworks their own.

## Motivation + Focus

Our goal is to promote digital extensions of modern, abstract paintings
and encourage users to play with and modify pieces with significance and
status in the art world. Wealthy collectors, curators, and gallery
owners have historically had a massive amount of power in determining
what is considered “good art” and what sells. We see our project as part
of the move to question empty status designations and push back against
institutional art gatekeeping. We will do this by creating a convenient
website where users can access several examples of recreated art pieces
and adjust their aesthetics based on one’s personal preference and
download them for their personal use.

In addition, our motivation is also to increase public appreciation and
awareness on the advent of using digital techniques to recreate modern
or postmodern artworks and help spark the tech community’s interest in
contributing to R by developing and creating more R packages (especially
in generative art and ggplot). We hope that our work will contribute
positively to widen up the usage of R not only to statisticians and data
scientists, but also to digital designers and professionals outside of
the field of statistics/data.

We are going to use fake datasets, mathematical functions, and
“ready-to-use” packages to recreate art pieces in ggplot.

We plan to recreate and make customizable the following four images:

#### Frank Stella, *Lettre sur les sourds et muets II* (1974) [1]

<img src="images/stella.jpg" style="width:80.0%" />

#### Barbara Kruger, *Untitled (Your body is a battleground)* (1989) [2]

<img src="images/kruger.jpeg" style="width:80.0%" />

#### Wassily Kandinsky, *Composition 8* (1923) [3]

<img src="images/kandinsky.jpeg" style="width:80.0%" />

#### Piet Mondrian, *Trafalgar Square* (1939-1943) [4]

<img src="images/mondrian.jpg" style="width:80.0%" />

## Plan of Attack

**Week of Mon, Nov 1:**

Each member will select one generative art piece that they would like to
make (total = 4).

As a team, we will draft and finalize the initial project proposal.

**Week of Mon, Nov 8:**

Each member will make an individual prototype ggplot object and ShinyR
website to ensure that users can modify aesthetics (such as shapes,
sizes, colors, and positions of objects as well as any text content) in
their digital art.

**Week of Mon, Nov 15:**

Gather feedback from teammates to improve each individual work. Every
team member should draft a 150-250 (total = 600-1000) word summary of
their artwork methodology for the write-up. Put the summary on each one
designated folder’s README.md..

Once done, each member can proceed as soon as possible to their task in
the Week of Mon, Nov 22 (since it will be Thanksgiving week).

**Week of Mon, Nov 22:**

Sana + Eli: Start drafting on the writeup (introduction, conclusion) and
combine 4 mini-summaries from each of the artwork from the previous
week). This final write up will be on the README.md of the final
combined Shiny App folder.

Lillian + Phillip: Combine everyone’s individual Shiny app into a single
comprehensive Shiny app. Try to code an app that is simple, aesthetic,
and can be easily navigated by users.

**Week of Mon, Nov 29:**

Finalizing writeup and creating the slides and preparing for the
presentation on Friday.

## Project Organization

Within our project, we will have seven different folders. One
folder will be the proposal, which will include a README.md that
explains the goals and plan of our project, along with the images of the
art pieces we will be recreating. Then, the four of us will each have a 
folder with our shiny app in it, in which we will work on recreating the 
chosen art piece. The final README.md for each of these folders
with have the name of the artwork we are recreating and 150-250 words
summary and methodology of how we recreated the artwork.We will have a
folder with the final shiny app, in which we will combine all of our
individual work. The final README.md for this will contain the final 1000-2000
word write-up. Finally, we will have our presentation folder, which will
contain our slides and code for our final project presentation.

These are the following art pieces we will be recreating within ggplot: 

[1] NSU Art Museum,
<https://nsuartmuseum.org/exhibition/frank-stella-experiment-and-change/>

[2] The Broad,
<https://www.thebroad.org/art/barbara-kruger/untitled-your-body-battleground>

[3] Guggenheim, <https://www.guggenheim.org/artwork/1924>

[4] Wikiart,
<https://www.wikiart.org/en/piet-mondrian/trafalgar-square-1943>
